README.md, before:

Gibbon Core
===========
Gibbon is a flexible, open source school management platform designed to make like better for teachers, students, parents and schools.

The Core repository represents the bulk of Gibbon, including all of its primary functionality. The core can be extended through the use of plugins and themes, which are provided separately.

Gibbon is open source, and maintained for the benefit of teachers, students, parents and schools.


Installation & Support
======================
For installation instructions, visit http://gibbonedu.org/support/administrators/installing-gibbon.

For support visit http://gibbonedu.org/support or email support@gibbonedu.org.


Cutting Edge?
==============
If you want to run the latest version of Gibbon, prerelease, you can get the source from our GitHub repo (https://github.com/GibbonEdu/core).

Remember, though, it is not stable, and you may lose data. This is not for the faint of heart.

As of the latest commit on 26/03/2014 you no longer need to manually update database changes when running Cutting Edge code. Simply go to Admin > System Admin > System Settings and enable Cutting Edge Code. When you want to update, get the latest commit from GitHub, upload it to your server and go to Admin > System Admin > Update to run the new lines. 

Please report any bugs to support@gibbonedu.org.

Commit message:

README.md Update & i18n String Wrapping.
README.md update for Cutting Edge Code. Continued i18n string wrapping.

README.md, after:

Gibbon Core
===========
Gibbon is a flexible, open source school management platform designed to make like better for teachers, students, parents and schools.

The Core repository represents the bulk of Gibbon, including all of its primary functionality. The core can be extended through the use of plugins and themes, which are provided separately.

Gibbon is open source, and maintained for the benefit of teachers, students, parents and schools.


Installation & Support
======================
For installation instructions, visit http://gibbonedu.org/support/administrators/installing-gibbon.

For support visit http://gibbonedu.org/support or email support@gibbonedu.org.


Cutting Edge?
==============
If you want to run the latest version of Gibbon, prerelease, you can get the source from our GitHub repo (https://github.com/GibbonEdu/core).

Remember, though, it is not stable, and you may lose data. This is not for the faint of heart.

For installation instructions, visit http://gibbonedu.org/support/administrators/installing-gibbon, and make sure to follow the additional instructions for cutting edge code.

As of the latest commit on 26/03/2014 you no longer need to manually update database changes when running Cutting Edge code. Simply go to Admin > System Admin > System Settings and enable Cutting Edge Code. When you want to update, get the latest commit from GitHub, upload it to your server and go to Admin > System Admin > Update to run the new lines. 

Please report any bugs to support@gibbonedu.org.
